# **Python Variables**

### Table of Content 
- [Variable Names](#variable-names)
- [Multi Words Variable Names](#multi-words-variable-names)
- [Assign Multiple Values](#assign-multiple-values)
- [Output Variables](#output-variables)
- [Global Variables](#global-variables)
---
## **Python Variables**

### *Variable*
- A Container for storing data values.

### **Creating Variables**
A variable is created the moment you first assign a value to it.

```py
name="isaahome"
print(name);
```

### Casting
To specify the data type of a variable, this can be done with casting.

#### Example
```py
price=float(10.99)
year=int(2022)
```


### Get the Type
You can get the data type of a variable with the type() function.

Example
```py
price=float(10.99)
year=int(2022)
print(type(price)) #<type 'float'>
print(type(year)) #<type 'int'>
```
### Single or Double Quotes?
String variables can be declared either by using single or double quotes:

#### Example
```py
name = "Isaac Home"
# is the same as
name = 'Isaac Home'
```

### Case-Sensitive
Variable names are case-sensitive.

#### Example
This will create two variables:

```py
index = 4
Index = "Four"
#Index will not overwrite index
```

---
## **`Variable Names`**

Rules for Python variables:

- A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
- A variable name cannot start with a number
- A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
- Variable names are case-sensitive (age, Age and AGE are three different variables)

Example
```py
name="John Doe"
my_name="James Doe"
_name4Me="Arthur Doe"
```

---

## **`Multi Words Variable Names`**

Variable names with more than one word can be difficult to read.

### **`Camel Case`**
Each word, except the first, starts with a capital letter:
```py
employeeName = "John"
```

### **`Pascal Case`**
Each word starts with a capital letter:
```py
StuffName = "John"
```

### **`Snake Case`**
Each word is separated by an underscore character:

```py
our_stuff_name = "John"
```

---

## **`Assign Multiple Values`**


### **`Many Values to Multiple Variables`**

Python allows you to assign values to multiple variables in one line:

```py 
player1,player2,player3=" Drummer" ,"Bassist","guitarist"  
```

**`Note:`** Make sure the number of variables matches the number of values, or else you will get an error.
```py
print(player1);
print(player2);
print(player3);
```

### **`One Value to Multiple Variables`**

And you can assign the same value to multiple variables in one line:

```py
player1=player2=player3="Liverpool Player"
```

### **`Unpack a Collection`**

A collection of values in a list, tuple etc... can be  extracted into variables. This is called unpacking.


```py   
fruits = ["Banana","Apple","Cherry"];
a,b,c=fruits;
print(a)
print(b)
print(c)
```


---
## **`Output Variables`**

The Python `print` statement is often used to output variables.

To combine both `text` and a `variable`, Python uses the `+ `character:

```py
name="Isaac Home";
address="Yangon";
print(" I am " + name +" from " + address);
```

You can also use the `+` character to add a variable to another variable:

Example
```py
a = "Python is "
b = "awesome"
c =  a + b
print(c)
```

For numbers, the `+` character works as a mathematical operator:

Example
```py
x = 5
y = 10
print(x + y)
```

If you try to combine a string and a number, Python will give you an error:
```py
name="isaac home"
age=18
print(name+age)
```

---
## **`Global Variables`**

Variables that are created outside of a function  are known as global variables.

Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside of functions and outside.


Example

Create a variable outside of a function, and use it inside the function.

```py
name="Isaac Home";
def getInfo():
    print('Name : ' + name);

getInfo();
```

If you create a variable with the same name inside a function, this variable will be local, and can only be used inside the function. 



```py
name="Isaac Home";
def getInfo():
    name="John Deo"
    print('Name : ' + name);

getInfo();
```

---

### The global Keyword

To create a global variable inside a function, you can use the global keyword.

```py
def myfunc():
  global x
  x = "fantastic"

myfunc()

print("Python is " + x)
```