# Python Introduction

### Table of Contents

- [What is Python](#what-is-python)
    - [Where is it used](#where-is-it-used)
    - [What can Python do](#what-can-python-do)
    - [Why Python](#why-python)
- [Python Syntax](#python-syntax)
- [Python Indentation](#python-indentation)
- [Python Comments](#python-comments)
- [Python Variables](#python-variables)
## **What is Python**
Python is a popular programming language.

It was created by Guido van Rossum, and released in 1991.

---

## **Where is it used**
It is used for:

- web development (server-side),
- software development,
- mathematics,
- system scripting.


## **What can Python do**
Python can be used:
- on a server to create web applications.
- alongside software to create workflows.
- to database systems. It can also read and modify files.
- to handle big data and perform complex mathematics.
- for rapid prototyping, or for production-ready software development.

---

## **Why Python**
Python works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc).

Python has a simple syntax similar to the English language
and  write programs with fewer lines than some other programming languages.

Python runs on an interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written.

Python can be treated in a procedural way, an object-oriented way or a functional way.

---

## **Python Syntax**

-  Python syntax can be executed by writing directly in the Command Line:

```py
>>> print("Hello, World!")
Hello, World!
```

-  creating a python file on the server, using the .py file extension, and running it in the Command Line:

```py
$:python hello.py
```
---
## **Python Indentation**

Python uses indentation to indicate a block of code.

```py
age=18;
if(age>=18):
    print("Enjoy adult life.");
```

The number of spaces is up to you as a programmer, but it has to be at least one.

```py
if 50 > 20:
 print("Wow Here we go conditional state.") 

if 100 > 10:
        print("I am greater than you.")
```

Use the same number of spaces in the same block of code, otherwise Python will give you an error:

```py

if 100 > 10:
    print("I am greater than you.")
        print("I am greater than you.")
```

---

## **Python Comments**

### Creating a Comment
Comments starts with a `#`, and Python will ignore them:

Example

```py
#This is a comment
print("There is comment above me!.");
```

- Comments  at the end of a line:

Example
```py
print("Hello, World!") #This is a comment
```

### **Multi Line Comments**

Example
To add a multiline comment you could insert a # for each line:
```py
#This is a comment
#written in
#more than just one line
print("Hello, World!")
```

Add a multiline string (triple quotes) in your code, and place your comment inside it:

```py
"""
This is a comment
written in
more than just one line
"""
print("I am documented with multiline comments.")
```
